RHDEVDOCS-6181: Content creation for GitOps 1.15 RN (#85582)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-release-notes-1-15-0.adoc

$ oc describe deployment gitops-operator-controller-manager -n openshift-gitops-operator
----

[id="new-features-1-15-0_{context}"]
== New features

> * With this update, {gitops-title} supports the addition of extra volumes and volume mounts to the `ApplicationSet` Controller components. You can configure these additional resources by specifying the `spec.applicationSet.volumes` and `spec.applicationSet.volumeMounts` fields in the Argo CD Custom Resource (CR). link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5739[GITOPS-5739]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* With this update, {gitops-title} supports the addition of extra volumes and volume mounts to the `ApplicationSet` Controller components. You can configure these additional resources by specifying the `.spec.applicationSet.volumes` and `.spec.applicationSet.volumeMounts` fields in the Argo CD Custom Resource (CR). link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5739[GITOPS-5739]
```

Author: Fixed.

+
.Example
[source,YAML]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: argocd-example
spec:
  applicationSet:
    volumes:
      - name: <volume-name> #<1>
        emptyDir: {} #<2>
    volumeMounts:
      - name: <volume-name> #<3>
        mountPath: <mount-path> #<4>
----
<1> Specifies the name of the `volume` for the Argo CD `ApplicationSet` Controller.
<2> Specifies the `volume` type. It can be any Kubernetes supported volume type, such as `emptyDir`, `hostPath`, `configMap`, and so on.
<3> Specifies the name of the volume to be mounted, which must match the name of the `volume` defined in volumes.
<4> Specifies the path inside the container where the volume will be mounted.

> * With this update, users can add custom labels and annotations to the server, repo, applicationset-controller, and application-controller pods. This enhancement improves observability for external systems that depend on resource labels or annotations for monitoring purposes. The following fields are introduced in the Argo CD CR to support this functionality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* With this update, users can add custom labels and annotations to the server, repo-server, applicationset-controller, and application-controller pods. This enhancement improves observability for external systems that depend on resource labels or annotations for monitoring purposes. The following fields are introduced in the Argo CD CR to support this functionality:
```

Author: Fixed.

** `.spec.server.labels`
** `.spec.server.annotations`
** `.spec.repo.labels`
** `.spec.repo.annotations`
** `.spec.controller.labels`
** `.spec.controller.annotations`
** `.spec. applicationSet.labels`
** `.spec. applicationSet.annotations` 

For more information, see link:https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/custom_labels_annotations/[Custom Annotations and Labels]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5674[GITOPS-5674]

> * Before this update, users could not configure some replicas for the Argo Rollouts controller by using the `RolloutManager` custom resource (CR). With this update, high availability (HA) support is introduced by adding a new `.spec.ha` field to the `RolloutManager` CR.

Reviewer: nitpick: If we are adding RolloutManager in backticks, probably we do the same for ArgoCD CR?

Author: No, I would rather keep ArgoCD CR as is.

* With this update, the *Sources* tab in the Details panel of a multi-source application now includes two new buttons:
** *Add Source*: Opens a new form-based panel for adding a new source entry. You can specify the repository URL and other source-specific details in this panel.
** *Delete*: Allows you to remove a specific source from the application. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4175[GITOPS-4175]

* With this update, the {gitops-shortname} Operator has improved tenant isolation by using a separate service account per tenant for the sync operation, instead of using the same service account for both sync and control plane operations. This feature is in alpha state and disabled by default. For more information, see link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/latest/proposals/decouple-application-sync-user-using-impersonation/#decouple-application-sync-using-impersonation[Decouple Application Sync using Impersonation]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3501[GITOPS-3501]

> * With this update, users can now enable or disable the Argo Rollouts UI in Argo CD instances by setting a new boolean field, `enableRolloutUI`, in the server component of the Argo CD CR. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3604[GITOPS-3604]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* With this update, users can now enable or disable the Argo Rollouts UI in Argo CD instances by setting a new boolean field, `enableRolloutsUI`, in the server component of the Argo CD CR. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3604[GITOPS-3604]
```

Reviewer 2: Good catch!

Author: Fixed.

* Before this update, users were unable to set a custom image for the `ApplicationSet` Controller after specifying it in the Argo CD CR. This update fixes the issue by allowing users to set a custom image for the `ApplicationSet` Controller. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5395[GITOPS-5395]

* Before this update, Argo CD was unable to retrieve the correct TLS certificate for Helm OCI registries if the URL contained a path or port number. This update fixes the issue by using a fix in upstream Argo CD that ensures the URL is correctly parsed, allowing Argo CD to retrieve and return a valid TLS certificate. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5081[GITOPS-5081]

[id="deprecated-features-1-15-0_{context}"]
== Deprecated and removed features

[id="removal-of-application-manager-cli-kam_{context}"]
=== Removal of {gitops-title} Application Manager CLI, kam

> * With this release, support for the {gitops-title} Application Manager command-line interface (CLI), `kam`, has been removed. The `kam` component is no longer included in new installations, and all references have been removed from the {gitops-title} documentation. For existing installations, manual cleanup of the `kam` `Deployment`, `kam` `Service`, and `kam` `Route` is required after upgrading. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4466[GITOPS-4466]

Reviewer: We could add commands to remove these resources (ignore the output if not needed)

```
$ oc delete deployment kam -n openshift-gitops
deployment.apps "kam" deleted

$ oc delete route kam -n openshift-gitops
route.route.openshift.io "kam" deleted

$ oc delete service kam -n openshift-gitops
service "kam" deleted
```

cc: @anandf @svghadi

Reviewer: Or a simplified version

`$oc delete deployment,service,route kam -n openshift-gitops`

Reviewer 2: Simplified one is better. Thanks @varshab1210.

Author: Fixed.

$ oc describe deployment gitops-operator-controller-manager -n openshift-gitops-operator
----

[id="new-features-1-15-0_{context}"]
== New features

* With this update, {gitops-title} supports the addition of extra volumes and volume mounts to the `ApplicationSet` Controller components. You can configure these additional resources by specifying the `.spec.applicationSet.volumes` and `.spec.applicationSet.volumeMounts` fields in the Argo CD Custom Resource (CR). link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5739[GITOPS-5739]
+
.Example
[source,YAML]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: argocd-example
spec:
  applicationSet:
    volumes:

>       - name: <volume-name> #<1>
>         emptyDir: {} #<2>
>     volumeMounts:
>       - name: <volume-name> #<3>
>         mountPath: <mount-path> #<4>

Reviewer 3: If these are meant to be user replaced values, then they should use underscores per our [guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference):
```suggestion
      - name: <volume_name> #<1>
        emptyDir: {} #<2>
    volumeMounts:
      - name: <volume_name> #<3>
        mountPath: <mount_path> #<4>
```

Author: Fixed.

----
<1> Specifies the name of the `volume` for the Argo CD `ApplicationSet` Controller.
<2> Specifies the `volume` type. It can be any Kubernetes supported volume type, such as `emptyDir`, `hostPath`, `configMap`, and so on.
<3> Specifies the name of the volume to be mounted, which must match the name of the `volume` defined in volumes.
<4> Specifies the path inside the container where the volume will be mounted.

* With this update, users can add custom labels and annotations to the server, repo-server, applicationset-controller, and application-controller pods. This enhancement improves observability for external systems that depend on resource labels or annotations for monitoring purposes. The following fields are introduced in the Argo CD CR to support this functionality:

** `.spec.server.labels`
** `.spec.server.annotations`
** `.spec.repo.labels`
** `.spec.repo.annotations`
** `.spec.controller.labels`
** `.spec.controller.annotations`

> ** `.spec. applicationSet.labels`
> ** `.spec. applicationSet.annotations` 

Reviewer 3: these two fields have an extra space in them:
```suggestion
** `.spec.applicationSet.labels`
** `.spec.applicationSet.annotations` 
```

Author: Fixed.

> 
> ** `.spec.server.labels`
> ** `.spec.server.annotations`
> ** `.spec.repo.labels`
> ** `.spec.repo.annotations`
> ** `.spec.controller.labels`
> ** `.spec.controller.annotations`
> ** `.spec. applicationSet.labels`
> ** `.spec. applicationSet.annotations` 
> 
> For more information, see link:https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/custom_labels_annotations/[Custom Annotations and Labels]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5674[GITOPS-5674]

Reviewer 3: So in the rendered preview, line 68 is not indented at the same level a the first bullet. If you added a + on line 67, that might work but it would indent the paragraph at the same level as the second bullet, which might not be desirable.

I'd recommend you try this and see if it works:
```suggestion
+
--
** `.spec.server.labels`
** `.spec.server.annotations`
** `.spec.repo.labels`
** `.spec.repo.annotations`
** `.spec.controller.labels`
** `.spec.controller.annotations`
** `.spec. applicationSet.labels`
** `.spec. applicationSet.annotations` 
--
+
For more information, see link:https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/custom_labels_annotations/[Custom Annotations and Labels]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5674[GITOPS-5674]
```

Author: Fixed.

* Before this update, users could not configure some replicas for the Argo Rollouts controller by using the `RolloutManager` custom resource (CR). With this update, high availability (HA) support is introduced by adding a new `.spec.ha` field to the `RolloutManager` CR.
+

> When you enable high availability, the operator automatically sets the number of replicas to 2, the leader election is activated, and default anti-affinity rules are applied to ensure redundancy and reliability. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5622[GITOPS-5622]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you enable high availability, the Operator automatically sets the number of replicas to 2, the leader election is activated, and default anti-affinity rules are applied to ensure redundancy and reliability. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5622[GITOPS-5622]
```

Author: Fixed.

* With this update, the Argo CD multi-source application functionality in {gitops-shortname} Operator is promoted from Technology Preview (TP) to General Availability (GA). Use this feature to define and manage applications with multiple source repositories. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5511[GITOPS-5511]

* With this update, you can now use Kubernetes TLS-type secrets to configure custom TLS certificates for Routes in the Argo CD CR. Previously, TLS data had to be embedded directly in the Argo CD CR as plain text, which could pose security risks due to the sensitive nature of TLS information.
+
To enhance security, you must use Kubernetes secrets to manage TLS data. The following fields are introduced in the Argo CD CR to reference Kubernetes secrets of type `kubernetes.io/tls` containing TLS data:

> 
> ** `.spec.server.route.tls.externalCertificate`
> ** `.spec.applicationSet.webhookServer.route.tls.externalCertificate`
> ** `.spec.prometheus.route.tls.externalCertificate`
> ** `.spec.grafana.route.tls.externalCertificate`
> 
> For more information about configuring a route for custom TLS certificate, see examples in link:https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/routes/#custom-tls-certificates[Custom TLS certificates for Routes]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5232[GITOPS-5232]

Reviewer 3: Same suggestion that I made earlier (though test to see if it works):
```suggestion
+
--
** `.spec.server.route.tls.externalCertificate`
** `.spec.applicationSet.webhookServer.route.tls.externalCertificate`
** `.spec.prometheus.route.tls.externalCertificate`
** `.spec.grafana.route.tls.externalCertificate`
--
+
For more information about configuring a route for custom TLS certificate, see examples in link:https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/routes/#custom-tls-certificates[Custom TLS certificates for Routes]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5232[GITOPS-5232]
```

Author: Fixed.

* With this update, Restricted pod security admission (PSA) labels are applied to the `openshift-gitops` namespace to ensure compliance with {OCP} standards. If you are running additional workloads in the `openshift-gitops` namespace, ensure they comply with restricted PSA requirements. If compliance with restricted PSA is not feasible, use a user-defined, cluster-scoped Argo CD instance. In such instances, PSA labels are not applied or controlled by the {gitops-shortname} Operator. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5221[GITOPS-5221]

* Before this update, `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins could not be configured by using the `RolloutManager` CR in Argo Rollouts. With this update, you can now specify `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins in the `RolloutManager` CR. The {gitops-shortname} Operator automatically updates the config map when these plugin fields are added, modified, or removed. This enhancement allows users to manage `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins natively through the `RolloutManager` CR, eliminating the need for manual config map updates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4217[GITOPS-4217]

> 
> * With this update, the *Sources* tab in the Details panel of a multi-source application now includes two new buttons:
> ** *Add Source*: Opens a new form-based panel for adding a new source entry. You can specify the repository URL and other source-specific details in this panel.
> ** *Delete*: Allows you to remove a specific source from the application. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4175[GITOPS-4175]

Reviewer 3: Similar suggestion as before, except I'd also suggest to add the Jira link to its own line:
```suggestion

* With this update, the *Sources* tab in the Details panel of a multi-source application now includes two new buttons:
+
--
** *Add Source*: Opens a new form-based panel for adding a new source entry. You can specify the repository URL and other source-specific details in this panel.
** *Delete*: Allows you to remove a specific source from the application.
--
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4175[GITOPS-4175]
```

Author: Fixed.

* Before this update, Argo CD was unable to retrieve the correct TLS certificate for Helm OCI registries if the URL contained a path or port number. This update fixes the issue by using a fix in upstream Argo CD that ensures the URL is correctly parsed, allowing Argo CD to retrieve and return a valid TLS certificate. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5081[GITOPS-5081]

[id="deprecated-features-1-15-0_{context}"]
== Deprecated and removed features

[id="removal-of-application-manager-cli-kam_{context}"]
=== Removal of {gitops-title} Application Manager CLI, kam

* With this release, support for the {gitops-title} Application Manager command-line interface (CLI), `kam`, has been removed. The `kam` component is no longer included in new installations, and all references have been removed from the {gitops-title} documentation. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4466[GITOPS-4466]
+

> To remove `kam` resources after an upgrade, run the following command:

Reviewer 3: Update is the preferred term per the [term glossary](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#update):
```suggestion
To remove `kam` resources after an update, run the following command:
```

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,YAML]
----
$ oc delete deployment,service,route kam -n openshift-gitops
----

[id="breaking-change-1-15-0_{context}"]
== Breaking change

[id="updated-openshift-api-schemas-and-insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy-field-change_{context}"]
=== Updated OpenShift API schemas and `insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy` field change

> * With this update, the OpenShift API schemas used by the {gitops-title} Operator have been updated to include the latest fields from the Route API, resulting in a breaking change. If the following fields are configured with the *Disable* option in the Argo CD CR, they must be updated to *None* before upgrading to ensure compatibility with the new schema: 

Reviewer 3: Update is the preferred term per the [term glossary](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#update):
```suggestion
* With this update, the OpenShift API schemas used by the {gitops-title} Operator have been updated to include the latest fields from the Route API, resulting in a breaking change. If the following fields are configured with the *Disable* option in the Argo CD CR, they must be changed to *None* before updating to ensure compatibility with the new schema: 
```
(also suggesting to swap the first mention of update to "changed" so there isn't repetition)

Author: Fixed.

> 
> ** `.spec.server.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy`
> ** `.spec.applicationSet.webhookServer.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy`
> ** `.spec.prometheus.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy`
> ** `.spec.grafana.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy` link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5808[GITOPS-5808]

Reviewer 3: Similar suggestion as before:
```suggestion
+
--
** `.spec.server.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy`
** `.spec.applicationSet.webhookServer.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy`
** `.spec.prometheus.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy`
** `.spec.grafana.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy`
--
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5808[GITOPS-5808]
```

Author: Fixed.

* Before this update, `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins could not be configured by using the `RolloutManager` CR in Argo Rollouts. With this update, you can now specify `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins in the `RolloutManager` CR. The {gitops-shortname} Operator automatically updates the config map when these plugin fields are added, modified, or removed. This enhancement allows users to manage `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins natively through the `RolloutManager` CR, eliminating the need for manual config map updates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4217[GITOPS-4217]

* With this update, the *Sources* tab in the Details panel of a multi-source application now includes two new buttons:
+
--
** *Add Source*: Opens a new form-based panel for adding a new source entry. You can specify the repository URL and other source-specific details in this panel.
** *Delete*: Allows you to remove a specific source from the application.
--
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4175[GITOPS-4175]

> * With this update, the {gitops-shortname} Operator has improved tenant isolation by using a separate service account per tenant for the sync operation, instead of using the same service account for both sync and control plane operations. This feature is in alpha state and disabled by default. For more information, see link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/latest/proposals/decouple-application-sync-user-using-impersonation/#decouple-application-sync-using-impersonation[Decouple Application Sync using Impersonation]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3501[GITOPS-3501]

Reviewer: @Dhruv-Soni11 please remove this feature, we'll be get this probably in 1.16

Author: Fixed.

+
.Example
[source,YAML]
----
serviceaccounts "<serviceaccount name>" is forbidden: User "system:serviceaccount:openshift-gitops:openshift-gitops-argocd-application-controller" cannot impersonate resource "serviceaccounts" in API group "" in the namespace "<destination namespace>"
----
+
Workaround: To address this issue:
+
* Manually edit the `openshift-gitops-openshift-gitops-argocd-application-controller` ClusterRole to include the necessary permissions for impersonation.
* Add `ClusteRole` and `ClusterRolebBnding` for providing the required permission after enabling impersonation.
** Create a new `ClusterRole` with impersonate permission.
+
.Example
[source,YAML]
----
kind: ClusterRole
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: impersonation
rules:
  - verbs:
      - impersonate
    apiGroups:
      - ''
    resources:
      - serviceaccounts
----

> ** Add a new `ClusterRole` to Argo CD Application Controller service account using a new `ClusterRoleBinding` role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Add a new `ClusterRole` to `openshift-gitops-argocd-application-controller` service account using a new `ClusterRoleBinding` role.
```

Author: Fixed. @varshab1210 and @anandf have recommended removing this feature, so I am removing the known issue content.

----

[id="new-features-1-15-0_{context}"]
== New features

* With this update, {gitops-title} supports the addition of extra volumes and volume mounts to the `ApplicationSet` Controller components. You can configure these additional resources by specifying the `spec.applicationSet.volumes` and `spec.applicationSet.volumeMounts` fields in the Argo CD Custom Resource (CR). link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5739[GITOPS-5739]
+
.Example
[source,YAML]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: argocd-example
spec:
  applicationSet:
    volumes:
      - name: <volume-name> #<1>
        emptyDir: {} #<2>
    volumeMounts:
      - name: <volume-name> #<3>
        mountPath: <mount-path> #<4>
----
<1> Specifies the name of the `volume` for the Argo CD `ApplicationSet` Controller.
<2> Specifies the `volume` type. It can be any Kubernetes supported volume type, such as `emptyDir`, `hostPath`, `configMap`, and so on.
<3> Specifies the name of the volume to be mounted, which must match the name of the `volume` defined in volumes.
<4> Specifies the path inside the container where the volume will be mounted.

> * With this update, users can add custom labels and annotations to the server, repo, applicationset-controller, and application-controller pods. This enhancement improves observability for external systems that depend on resource labels or annotations for monitoring purposes. The Argo CD Custom Resource (CR) has introduced new fields `.spec.labels` and `.spec.annotations` to support this functionality. For more information, see link:https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/custom_labels_annotations/[Custom Annotations and Labels]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5674[GITOPS-5674]

Author: Fixed.

* Before this update, users could not configure some replicas for the Argo Rollouts controller by using the `RolloutManager` custom resource (CR). With this update, high availability (HA) support is introduced by adding a new `.spec.ha` field to the `RolloutManager` CR.
+
When you enable high availability, the operator automatically sets the number of replicas to 2, the leader election is activated, and default anti-affinity rules are applied to ensure redundancy and reliability. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5622[GITOPS-5622]

* With this update, the Argo CD multi-source application functionality in {gitops-shortname} Operator is promoted from Technology Preview (TP) to General Availability (GA). Use this feature to define and manage applications with multiple source repositories. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5511[GITOPS-5511]

* With this update, you can now use Kubernetes TLS-type secrets to configure custom TLS certificates for Routes in the Argo CD CR. Previously, TLS data had to be embedded directly in the Argo CD CR as plain text, which could pose security risks due to the sensitive nature of TLS information.
+

> To enhance security, you must use Kubernetes secrets to manage TLS data. New fields such as, `.spec.server.route`, `.spec.applicationSet.webhookServer.Route`, `.spec.prometheus.route`, and `.spec.grafana.route` have been introduced in the Argo CD CR to reference Kubernetes secrets of type `kubernetes.io/tls` containing TLS data. For more information about configuring a route for custom TLS certificate, see examples in link:https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/routes/#custom-tls-certificates[Custom TLS certificates for Routes]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5232[GITOPS-5232]

Author: Fixed.

* Before this update, `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins could not be configured by using the `RolloutManager` CR in Argo Rollouts. With this update, you can now specify `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins in the `RolloutManager` CR. The {gitops-shortname} Operator automatically updates the config map when these plugin fields are added, modified, or removed. This enhancement allows users to manage `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins natively through the `RolloutManager` CR, eliminating the need for manual config map updates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4217[GITOPS-4217]

* With this update, the *Sources* tab in the Details panel of a multi-source application now includes two new buttons:
** *Add Source*: Opens a new form-based panel for adding a new source entry. You can specify the repository URL and other source-specific details in this panel.
** *Delete*: Allows you to remove a specific source from the application. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4175[GITOPS-4175]

> * With this update, the {gitops-shortname} Operator has improved tenant isolation by using a separate service account per tenant for the sync operation, instead of using the same service account for both sync and control plane operations. This feature is in alpha state and disabled by default. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3501[GITOPS-3501]

Reviewer 4: Can we add upstream documentation link. 
```
For more information on using this feature, please refer the upstream documentation https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/latest/proposals/decouple-application-sync-user-using-impersonation/
```

Author: Sure, we can add that link. Fixed.

* Before this update, users were unable to set a custom image for the `ApplicationSet` Controller after specifying it in the Argo CD CR. This update fixes the issue by allowing users to set a custom image for the `ApplicationSet` Controller. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5395[GITOPS-5395]

* Before this update, Argo CD was unable to retrieve the correct TLS certificate for Helm OCI registries if the URL contained a path or port number. This update fixes the issue by using a fix in upstream Argo CD that ensures the URL is correctly parsed, allowing Argo CD to retrieve and return a valid TLS certificate. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5081[GITOPS-5081]

[id="breaking-change-1-15-0_{context}"]
== Breaking change

[id="removal-of-application-manager-cli-kam_{context}"]
=== Removal of {gitops-title} Application Manager CLI, kam

> * With this release, support for the {gitops-title} Application Manager command-line interface (CLI), `kam`, has been removed because this feature is no longer supported. As a result, all instances of `kam` have been removed from the {gitops-title} documentation. As an alternative to `kam`, you can use the Argo CD CLI that is available from {gitops-title} Operator v1.12. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4466[GITOPS-4466]

Author: Fixed.

> * With this release, support for the {gitops-title} Application Manager command-line interface (CLI), `kam`, has been removed because this feature is no longer supported. As a result, all instances of `kam` have been removed from the {gitops-title} documentation. As an alternative to `kam`, you can use the Argo CD CLI that is available from {gitops-title} Operator v1.12. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4466[GITOPS-4466]

Reviewer 4: > @Dhruv-Soni11 - lets include about manual cleanup required post upgrade. cc: @varshab1210.
> 
> I am not sure about argocd-cli being an alternative for kam. Can you confirm? @anandf
`argocd-cli` is not a direct replacement for `kam`. argocd-cli can be used by customers, who prefer operating via the CLI. So probably we can remove that line and use the suggestions provided by @svghadi. Thanks @svghadi @Dhruv-Soni11

> * With this release, support for the {gitops-title} Application Manager command-line interface (CLI), `kam`, has been removed because this feature is no longer supported. As a result, all instances of `kam` have been removed from the {gitops-title} documentation. As an alternative to `kam`, you can use the Argo CD CLI that is available from {gitops-title} Operator v1.12. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4466[GITOPS-4466]

Author: Thanks for the suggestions @svghadi and @anandf.  I have incorporated your feedback.

[id="updated-openshift-api-schemas-and-insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy-field-change_{context}"]
=== Updated OpenShift API schemas and `insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy` field change

> * With this update, the OpenShift API schemas used by the {gitops-title} Operator have been updated to include the latest fields from the Route API, resulting in a breaking change. If the `.spec.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy` field is configured with the *Disable* option in the ArgoCD Custom Resource (CR), it must be updated to *None* before upgrading to ensure compatibility with the new schema. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5808[GITOPS-5808]

Author: Fixed.

$ oc describe deployment gitops-operator-controller-manager -n openshift-gitops-operator
----

[id="new-features-1-15-0_{context}"]
== New features

* With this update, {gitops-title} supports the addition of extra volumes and volume mounts to the `ApplicationSet` Controller components. You can configure these additional resources by specifying the `spec.applicationSet.volumes` and `spec.applicationSet.volumeMounts` fields in the Argo CD Custom Resource (CR). link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5739[GITOPS-5739]

> +

Reviewer 2: Add a `Example:` Heading

Author: Fixed.

[source,YAML]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: argocd-example
spec:
  applicationSet:
    volumes:
      - name: <volume-name> #<1>
        emptyDir: {} #<2>
    volumeMounts:
      - name: <volume-name> #<3>
        mountPath: <mount-path> #<4>
----

> <1> Specifices the name of the `volume` within the Argo CD `ApplicationSet` Controller.
> <2> Specifies the volume type as an `emptyDir`, which creates an empty directory in the pod.
> <3> Specifices the name of the `volumeMounts` within the Argo CD `ApplicationSet` Controller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> Specifies the name of the `volume` for the Argo CD `ApplicationSet` Controller.
<2> Specifies the volume type. It can be any Kubernetes supported volume type, such as emptyDir, hostPath, configMap, etc.
<3> Specifies the name of the volume to be mounted, which must match the name of a volume defined in volumes.
```

Author: Fixed.

<4> Specifies the path inside the container where the volume will be mounted.

* With this update, the {gitops-shortname} Operator can now gather and export metrics data that is compatible with Prometheus. The data collected by these metrics provide the following important insights into Argo CD instances:
** The total number of Argo CD instances managed and reconciled.
** The number of Argo CD instances in various states, such as pending, available, and so on. 
** The total time for reconciliation loops to complete per instance.
** The total Resource usage metrics, including CPU, memory, and the number of `go` routines. 
+

> When the {gitops-shortname} Operator is installed in the default `openshift-gitops-operator` namespace, these metrics are automatically available in the {OCP} console. You can access them by navigating to the *Observe* tab and running queries against the monitoring stack. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5674[GITOPS-5674]

Reviewer 2: Content doesn't match with the RN text from JIRA. Can you confirm?

Author: Hi @svghadi, I just compared it with the RN text from JIRa and I agree that this is a mismatch. Apologies from my side. I have added the correct RN text and would request you take a look at it.

* Before this update, users could not configure some replicas for the Argo Rollouts controller by using the `RolloutManager` custom resource (CR). With this update, high availability (HA) support is introduced by adding a new `.spec.ha` field to the `RolloutManager` CR. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5622[GITOPS-5622]
+

> When you enable high availability, the operator automatically sets the number of replicas to 2, the leader election is activated, and default anti-affinity rules are applied to ensure redundancy and reliability.

Reviewer 5: can you please add JIRA link `link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5511[GITOPS-5511]` from above to this line

Author: Fixed.

* With this update, the Argo CD multi-source application functionality in {gitops-shortname} Operator is promoted from Technology Preview (TP) to General Availability (GA). Use this feature to define and manage applications with multiple source repositories. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5511[GITOPS-5511]

* With this update, you can now use Kubernetes TLS-type secrets to configure custom TLS certificates for Routes in the Argo CD CR. Previously, TLS data had to be embedded directly in the Argo CD CR as plain text, which could pose security risks due to the sensitive nature of TLS information.
+

> To enhance security, you must use Kubernetes secrets to manage TLS data. A new field, `.spec.route.tls.externalCertificate`, has been introduced in the Argo CD CR to reference Kubernetes secrets of type `kubernetes.io/tls` containing TLS data. For more information about configuring a route for custom TLS certificate, see examples in link:https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/routes/#custom-tls-certificates[Custom TLS certificates for Routes]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5232[GITOPS-5232]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enhance security, you must use Kubernetes secrets to manage TLS data. A new field, `.spec.*.route.tls.externalCertificate`, has been introduced in the Argo CD CR to reference Kubernetes secrets of type `kubernetes.io/tls` containing TLS data. For more information about configuring a route for custom TLS certificate, see examples in link:https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/routes/#custom-tls-certificates[Custom TLS certificates for Routes]. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5232[GITOPS-5232]
```

There are actually multiple fields in ArgoCD CR where `.route` is supported. What do you suggest, should be use wildcard `*` or specify them individually. The fields are `.spec.server.route`, `.spec.applicationSet.webhookServer.Route`, `.spec.prometheus.route` & `.spec.grafana.route`.

Author: Using a wildcard causes issues in the build and results in build failure. I would like to list them individually.

Author: Fixed.

> * With this update, Restricted pod security admission (PSA) labels are applied to the `openshift-gitops` namespace to ensure compliance with {OCP} standards. If you are running additional workloads in the `openshift-gitops` namespace, ensure they comply with restricted PSA requirements. If compliance with restricted PSA is not feasible, consider using a user-defined, cluster-scoped Argo CD instance, where PSA labels are not applied or controlled by the {gitops-shortname} Operator in these instances. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5221[GITOPS-5221]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, Restricted pod security admission (PSA) labels are applied to the `openshift-gitops` namespace to ensure compliance with {OCP} standards. If you are running additional workloads in the `openshift-gitops` namespace, ensure they comply with restricted PSA requirements. If compliance with restricted PSA is not feasible, consider using a user-defined, cluster-scoped Argo CD instance. In such instances, PSA labels are not applied or controlled by the {gitops-shortname} Operator. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5221[GITOPS-5221]
```

Author: Fixed.

> * Before this update, `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins could not be configured by using the `RolloutManager` CR in Argo Rollouts. With this update, you can now specify `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins in the `RolloutManager` CR. The {gitops-shortname} Operator automatically updates the config map when these plugin fields are added, modified, or removed. This enhancement allows users to manage `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins natively through the `RolloutManager` CR, eliminating the need for manual config map updates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4217[GITOPS-4217]

Author: Hi @Rizwana777, I have received feedback from a peer reviewer requesting me to change the casing of ConfigMap to config map. I am adding the [comment](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/84875#discussion_r1854686418) link and the Red Hat style guideline for using terms such as config map [here](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#config-map) for your reference.

> * Before this update, `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins could not be configured by using the `RolloutManager` CR in Argo Rollouts. With this update, you can now specify `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins in the `RolloutManager` CR. The {gitops-shortname} Operator automatically updates the config map when these plugin fields are added, modified, or removed. This enhancement allows users to manage `trafficmanagement` and `metric` plugins natively through the `RolloutManager` CR, eliminating the need for manual config map updates. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4217[GITOPS-4217]

Author: Not fixed.

> * With this update, the *Sources* tab in the Details panel of a multi-source application now includes two new options:

Author: Fixed, keeping it as buttons.

> ** *Add*: Launches a form to add a new source entry to the application. You can specify the repository URL and other source-specific details.

Reviewer 6: If you change it to 'buttons' in my above comment, then this needs to change from "*Add*" to "*Add Source*" because that is the actual name of the button.

> ** *Add*: Launches a form to add a new source entry to the application. You can specify the repository URL and other source-specific details.

Reviewer 6: "Launches a form to add a new source entry...." --> How about: "Opens a new form-based panel for adding a new source entry..."

Author: Fixed.

** *Delete*: Allows you to remove a specific source from the application. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4175[GITOPS-4175]

* With this update, the {gitops-shortname} Operator has improved tenant isolation by using a separate service account per tenant for the sync operation, instead of using the same service account for both sync and control plane operations. This feature is in alpha state and disabled by default. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3501[GITOPS-3501]

* With this update, users can now enable or disable the Argo Rollouts UI in Argo CD instances by setting a new boolean field, `enableRolloutUI`, in the server component of the Argo CD CR. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-3604[GITOPS-3604]

> +

Reviewer 2: `Example:` heading.

Author: Fixed.

* Before this update, Argo CD was unable to retrieve the correct TLS certificate for Helm OCI registries if the URL contained a path or port number. This update fixes the issue by using a fix in upstream Argo CD that ensures the URL is correctly parsed, allowing Argo CD to retrieve and return a valid TLS certificate. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5081[GITOPS-5081]

[id="breaking-change-1-15-0_{context}"]
== Breaking change

[id="removal-of-application-manager-cli-kam_{context}"]
=== Removal of {gitops-title} Application Manager CLI, kam

* With this release, support for the {gitops-title} Application Manager command-line interface (CLI), `kam`, has been removed because this feature is no longer supported. As a result, all instances of `kam` have been removed from the {gitops-title} documentation. As an alternative to `kam`, you can use the Argo CD CLI that is available from {gitops-title} Operator v1.12. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4466[GITOPS-4466]

[id="updated-openshift-api-schemas-and-insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy-field-change_{context}"]
=== Updated OpenShift API schemas and `insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy` field change

> * With this update, the OpenShift API schemas used by the {gitops-title} Operator have been updated to include the latest fields from the Route API, resulting in a breaking change. If the `.spec.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy` field is configured with the *Disable* option in the ArgoCD Custom Resource (CR), it must be updated to *None* before upgrading to ensure compatibility with the new schema. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5808[GITOPS-5808]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, the OpenShift API schemas used by the {gitops-title} Operator have been updated to include the latest fields from the Route API, resulting in a breaking change. If the `.spec.*.route.tls.insecureEdgeTerminationPolicy` field is configured with the *Disable* option in the ArgoCD Custom Resource (CR), it must be updated to *None* before upgrading to ensure compatibility with the new schema. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-5808[GITOPS-5808]
```
Same comment as previous. Use wildcard `*` or list the fields individually?

Author: Using a wildcard causes issues in the build and results in build failure. I would like to list them individually.

Author: Fixed.
